---
layout: post
title: Week 1:Getting to Know the Idea of Open Source
---

The first time I heard the term “open source” was in an intro level web programming class at NYU. When the professor talked about the history of web programming, he briefly introduced us to the concept of “copyleft” and the creation of GNU. Since then, I have regarded the free sharing of code as the core value of open source projects. After the first week in this class, now I have a more comprehensive understanding of open source projects: they are projects with valid open source licenses whose source code can be freely viewed and shared. 

Compared with closed source, open source has many advantages. First of all, open source softwares are usually free, which enables more users to download and make use of them. The large number of users in turn provide developers with a lot of feedback which helps improve the software. Also, developers and students are able to view the source code of open source softwares and learn from it. Furthermore, the idea that anyone can view and make changes to the source code gives everyone the chance to contribute to the projects, and enables hundreds of thousands of developers to work together under one project towards a common goal. The size and functionality of softwares can develop faster as ideas about new features can come from a larger number of people.

Despite these advantages, there are also many challenges that open source projects need to deal with. First of all, the involvement of more contributors makes it harder to make and implement a set of rules and guidelines that everyone agrees on. 
Distribution policies, license specifications, standards of code submissions and so on all need to be discussed. Secondly, since a greater number and a greater variety of developers are involved in a single project, the risk that the project is exposed to also increases. Developers' personal ethics, sense of responsibility, and self-motivation become much more important than they are in closed source projects. Besides, since open source softwares are mostly free, they may be have less user-friendly interfaces and support services than closed source softwares.

I first became interested in open source software programming because it is now an important part of the IT industry, and I'm attracted by this culture of sharing and the possibility of making my own contributions. I decided to register for this class because I want to learn how I can learn from and make effective contributions to open source communities.

The open source project that I use most often is Wikipedia. The fact that it is open source enables it to include over 6 million articles while still remaining free, which makes it a very useful tool for students like me to look up basic information on a subject. Other open source softwares that I use are Eclipse, Sublime Text, and Audacity. I used Sublime Text to write code in HTML and CSS when I was learning web programming, and used Eclipse for code in Java. I used Audacity to record and edit the voice over audios for the video of a group project.
